doc: DuckDB native support for HuggingFace urls (#2817)
huggingface/dataset-viewer: docs/source/duckdb_cli.md

# DuckDB CLI

The [DuckDB CLI](https://duckdb.org/docs/api/cli/overview.html) (Command Line Interface) is a single, dependency-free executable. 

<Tip>

For installation details, visit the [installation page](https://duckdb.org/docs/installation).

</Tip>

Starting from version `v0.10.3-dev1012`, the DuckDB CLI includes native support for accessing datasets on Hugging Face via URLs. Here are some features you can leverage with this powerful tool:

- Query public, gated and private datasets
- Analyze datasets and perform SQL operations
- Process and transform datasets
- Conduct vector similarity search on embedding datasets
- Export datasets to other formats
- Implement full-text search on datasets
- And more! For a complete list of DuckDB features, visit the DuckDB documentation.

To start the CLI, execute the following command in the installation folder:

```bash
./duckdb
```

## Forming the Hugging Face URL

To access Hugging Face datasets, use the following URL format:

```plaintext

> hf://datasets/{my-username}/{my-dataset}@~parquet/{path_to_parquet_file} 

Reviewer: I would start without mentioning the refs/convert/parquet branch because it's very specific (only useful for datasets not in parquet or CSV)

Reviewer: Maybe we can keep that for more advanced use cases (so later in the docs or in another page) ?

Author: Yes, better idea, I left it as hf://datasets/{my-username}/{my-dataset}/{path_to_parquet_file}  (as in DuckDB doc) and added a tip for it later.

# DuckDB CLI

The [DuckDB CLI](https://duckdb.org/docs/api/cli/overview.html) (Command Line Interface) is a single, dependency-free executable. 

<Tip>

For installation details, visit the [installation page](https://duckdb.org/docs/installation).

</Tip>

> Starting from version `v0.10.3`, the DuckDB CLI includes native support for accessing datasets on Hugging Face via URLs. Here are some features you can leverage with this powerful tool:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Starting from version `v0.10.3`, the DuckDB CLI includes native support for accessing datasets on the Hugging Face Hub via URLs. Here are some features you can leverage with this powerful tool:
```

> - Query public, gated and private datasets

Reviewer 2: This makes it sound like you can query other users/orgs gated and private datasets? Maybe something like:

```suggestion
- Query public datasets and your own gated and private datasets
```

- Analyze datasets and perform SQL operations

> - Combine datasets and export it different formats

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Combine datasets and export it to different formats
```

- Conduct vector similarity search on embedding datasets
- Implement full-text search on datasets

> - And more! For a complete list of DuckDB features, visit the DuckDB documentation.

Reviewer 2: Not sure if this is the best link to link to, so feel free to replace with a more appropriate one!

```suggestion

For a complete list of DuckDB features, visit the DuckDB [documentation](https://duckdb.org/docs/).
```

To start the CLI, execute the following command in the installation folder:

```bash
./duckdb
```

## Forming the Hugging Face URL

To access Hugging Face datasets, use the following URL format:

```plaintext
hf://datasets/{my-username}/{my-dataset}/{path_to_parquet_file} 
```

> Where:
> - **my-username**  The user or organization of the dataset, e.g. `ibm`
> - **my-dataset** Is the dataset name, e.g: `duorc`
> - **path_to_parquet_file** Is the parquet file path, it supports glob patterns, e.g `**/*.parquet` to query all parquet files

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **my-username**, the user or organization of the dataset, e.g. `ibm`
- **my-dataset**, the dataset name, e.g: `duorc`
- **path_to_parquet_file**, the parquet file path which supports glob patterns, e.g `**/*.parquet`, to query all parquet files
```
